[docs] New splash screen tutorial video + template (#34593)
expo/expo: docs/pages/develop/user-interface/splash-screen-and-app-icon.mdx

---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';

> import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';

Reviewer: Since the static images are not used in this new version of the guide. Can you remove all the static resources that were previously used from `public/static/images/splash-screen`?

Author: Oh yes! I forgot! 😅

- Use a 1024x1024 image.
- Use a **.png** file.
- Use a transparent background.
- Use the [Figma template](https://www.figma.com/community/file/1466490409418563617) to create your splash screen icon.

</Collapsible>

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Export the splash icon as a .png

After creating a splash screen icon, export it as a **.png** and save it in the **assets/images** directory. By default, Expo uses **splash-icon.png** as the file name. If you decide to change the name of your splash screen file, make sure to use that in the next step.

> **Note:** **Currently, only .png images are supported** to use as a splash screen icon in an Expo project. If you use another image format, making a production build of your app will fail.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Configure the splash screen icon

Open the app config file, under plugins set the corresponding properties as follows:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-splash-screen",
        {
          /* @info The background color of the splash screen */
          "backgroundColor": "#232323",
          /* @end */
          /* @info The path to the splash screen icon */

>           "image": "./assets/splash-icon.png",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          "image": "./assets/images/splash-icon.png",
```

As per default template

          /* @end */
          /* @info The path to the splash screen icon for dark mode (optional) */
          "dark": {

>             "image": "./assets/splash-icon-dark.png",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "image": "./assets/images/splash-icon-dark.png",
```

            /* @end */
            /* @info The background color of the splash screen for dark mode */
            "backgroundColor": "#000000"
            /* @end */
          },
          /* @info The width of the splash screen icon */
          "imageWidth": 200
          /* @end */
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

> To test your new splash screen, create a [preview](/build/eas-json/#preview-builds) or [production](/build/eas-json/#production-builds) build of your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test your new splash screen, create a [preview](/build/eas-json/#preview-builds) or [production](/build/eas-json/#production-builds) build of your app.

Learn more about [configurable splash screen properties](/versions/latest/sdk/splash-screen/#configurable-properties).
```

- At this point of the user journey, development, preview, or production builds haven't been introduced. It can lead to confusion. Might be good to link to the Preview and Production builds EAS tutorial chapters here.
- Can you use the BoxLink component here to point to the config plugin properties for the Splash Screen API?

> > **warning** Do not use Expo Go to test your splash screen as Expo Go renders your app icon while the splash screen is visible. Instead, use a [preview build](/build/eas-json/#preview-builds) or a [production build](/build/eas-json/#production-builds).

Reviewer: This warning only mentions preview and production builds. Does that mean development builds are also not supported?

Author: Brent said:

> we plan to update the loading screen in expo go and dev client soon, need to do a mockup for it. the idea is to indicate clearly that this is a loading screen and not splash screen.

Maybe we can mention that. 🤔

</Step>

<Collapsible summary={<>Configuring <CODE>expo-splash-screen</CODE> properties separately for Android and iOS</>}>

> [expo-splash-screen](/versions/latest/sdk/splash-screen) also supports `ios` and `android` properties for configuring the splash screen for a specific platform. See the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`expo-splash-screen`](/versions/latest/sdk/splash-screen) also supports `android` and `ios` properties for configuring the splash screen for a specific platform. See the following example:
```

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-splash-screen",
        {
          "ios": {
            "backgroundColor": "#ffffff",

>             "image": "./assets/splash.png",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "image": "./assets/images/splash-icon.png",
```

Let's keep the path of these icons as per default template directory structure. For new users it might lead to confusion.

            "resizeMode": "cover",
          },
          "android": {
            "backgroundColor": "#0c7cff",

>             "image": "./assets/splash-android-icon.png",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "image": "./assets/images/splash-android-icon.png",
```

- 1024x1024 is a good size. If you have an Expo project created using `npx create-expo-app`, [EAS Build](/build/setup/) will generate the other sizes for you. In case of a bare React Native project, generate the icons on your own. The largest size EAS Build generates is 1024x1024.
- The icon must be exactly square. For example, a 1023x1024 icon is not valid.
- Make sure the icon fills the whole square, with no rounded corners or other transparent pixels. The operating system will mask your icon when appropriate.

> - Use `ios.icon` to specify different icons for various system appearances (e.g., dark, tinted) can be provided. If specified, this overrides the top-level icon key. See the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `ios.icon` to specify different icons for various system appearances (for example, dark and tinted) can be provided. If specified, this overrides the top-level icon key in the app config file. See the example below:
```

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "ios": {
      "icon": {

>         "dark": "./assets/icons/ios-dark.png",
>         "light": "./assets/icons/ios-light.png",
>         "tinted": "./assets/icons/ios-tinted.png"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "dark": "./assets/images/ios-dark.png",
        "light": "./assets/images/ios-light.png",
        "tinted": "./assets/images/ios-tinted.png"
```
